Now that you know more about the different services you can host on a cloud
provider, let's talk about how to make the most of the cloud for your
organization. As we've mentioned in previous lessons, when we say that a service
is running in the cloud, we mean that it's running somewhere else, either in a
data center or in other remote service. These data centers house a large
assortment of machines, and different types of machines are used for different
services. For example, some machines may have local Solid State Drive, SSD for
increased performance, while others may rely on virtual drives mounted over the
network to lower costs. When you use Software as a Service or SaaS, the software
is already pre-configured and the user isn't deeply involved in the cloud
configuration. If you choose a cloud email solution like gmail, a cloud storage
solution like Dropbox or a cloud productivity suite like Microsoft Office 365,
there are only a small number of options for you to select or customize. The
cloud provider manages everything related to the service for you including;
deciding whether VMs are hosted, ensuring that it has enough capacity to serve
your needs, forming back as frequently and reliably and more. When you use
Infrastructure as a Service or IaaS on the other hand, you're hosting your own
services in the cloud. You need to decide how you want the infrastructure to
look depending on what you want to run on it. For example, you need to decide
which of the many available machine types you'll use and what kind of storage
they'll need. Pro tip. Start small, then select more powerful instances as
needed. When you set up cloud resources, you need to consider regions. A region
is a geographical location containing a number of data centers. Each of these
data centers is called a zone, and each zone is independent of the others. If
one of them fails for some reason, the others are still available and services
can be migrated without visibly affecting users. Large cloud providers usually
offer their services in lots of different regions around the world, and which
region you choose will mostly depend on where your users are located. Smaller
cloud providers may offer fewer regions but they may be the only provided with
the availability in your city or country. It doesn't matter where exactly the
data center is located, but users may experience more latency if it's further
away from them. You may also hear about public, private and hybrid clouds. The
public cloud is what we call cloud services provided to you by a third party.
The name refers to the fact that the cloud providers offers services to the
public. When your company owns the services and the rest of your infrastructure,
whether on-site or in a remote data center, we call that the private cloud. And
the hybrid cloud is a mixture of both public and private cloud. Some workloads
are run on servers owned by your company, while others are run on servers owned
by a third party. The trick to making the most of the hybrid cloud is ensuring
that everything is integrated smoothly, so you can access, migrate, and manage
data seamlessly no matter where it's hosted.