Wow! You've made it all the way to the end of course for System Administration
and IT infrastructure services. Congratulations. We've covered a lot of material
in this course and hopefully you've expanded your IT skill set to now be able to
support small organization of hundred users and machines. Let's take a moment to
recap what you've accomplished so far. You learn about the many many
responsibilities involved in Systems Administration. Whether that role is as
system admin or an IT support specialist, it includes lots of important tasks.
These can be anything from figuring out IT organizational policies like setting
pass requirements to running the hardware lifecycle provisioning hardware for
users, to maintaining software for a fleet of machines, or working with users
and flexing your troubleshooting skills. On top of that, System Administration
responsibilities also include managing IT infrastructure services. We cover the
various IT infrastructure services that make up in organizations IT environment.
You learn about physical infrastructure services like working with server
hardware and virtual servers along with how to access those services using
remote connection methods. You also learn about the various network services
involved in the organization and why DNS and DHCP are essential to a company.
You've reviewed software services and the differences between using software on
a personal and commercial setting. You even learn about the different
communications software used in the industry along with vital services like fast
storage and printing. You also covered common platform services, and how web
service function. The last IT infrastructure service that you learned about was
directory services. We covered centralized management of accomplish uses and IT
assets. You also learned about dial up and go hands on with two of the most
popular directory services. Active Directory and open dial up. Finally, you
learned how to protect your organization's data in the case of a disaster. You
learned how to back up critical data, create a disaster recovery plan, pick up
the pieces after disaster struck and learn from it by creating a post-mortem.
Now, it's time to put your newly acquired knowledge to the test. You'll assess
the IT infrastructure of three fictitious but very real life based companies,
and provide Systems Administration consultation. Make sure to think about some
of the best practices you learned about like data backup, cost benefit analysis,
service to enable or disable, and more. Good luck on your assessment and I know
you got this.