Now let's talk about configuring policies for your mobile devices using Mobile
Device Management or MDM. The mobile operating system takes MDM profiles or
policies that contains settings for the device. You can use MDM profiles to do a
whole bunch of things. You can pre-configure device settings to make things
easier for your end users like automatically installing apps and pre-configuring
wireless networks. You can also enforce security settings like turning on
encryption of the device's storage, and requiring as lock screen. MDM solutions
will also let you remote wipe a mobile device. A remote wipe is a factory reset
that you can trigger from your central MDM rather than having to do it in person
on the device. If a device is stolen, you can use the remote wipe capability to
ensure that no personal or proprietary data is stolen. Just like with Active
Directory group policy, there's a huge number of settings and policies that you
can apply using MDM. We've added links to the documentation for iOS and Android
MDM policies in the supplemental reading. The MDM policy settings are specific
to each mobile OS. But those policies can be created and distributed using an
Enterprise Mobility Management or EMM system. To enroll a device in mobile
device management, you'll sign into the EMM system. That system will then push
MDM policies down to the device. A large number of EMM systems can manage MDM
policies for Android, iOS or both. We've added a couple common examples of EMM
systems for these OSs in the supplemental reading, but there are a whole lot
more