There's one last super important topic when it comes to backups. Testing them.
The field of IT is littered with tragic tales of IT support specialist and
sysadmins attempting to restore data from a back up after a data loss incident,
only to discover that their backups are invalid. That's not just embarrassing,
it's completely terrifying. The takeaway here is that it isn't sufficient to
just set up regular backups. That's only half of the equation. The other half is
a recovery process and that process needs to be tested regularly. Restoration
procedures should be documented and accessible so that anyone with the right
access can restore operations when needed. You don't want your time off to be
interrupted because your colleague back at the office doesn't know how to
restore the sequel database from the back up, right? Of course not. So document
the procedure and make sure you regularly test the documentation to make sure it
works now and in the future. This process is called Disaster Recovery testing
and is critical to ensuring a well functioning recovery system. Disaster
recovery testing should be a regular exercise that happens once a year or so. It
should have different teams including I.T. support specialists going through
simulations of disaster events. They'll test and evaluate how well-prepared or
unprepared your organization is when lots of unexpected events. These scenarios
can be anything from a simulated natural disaster, like an earthquake to a
fictional, event like a horde of zombies shutting down an office. If that's the
case, back ups would be the least of your worries. But it's still important,
whatever the scenario, it will your I.T. teams test their emergency procedures
and figure out what works and most importantly what doesn't. These simulated
events are the perfect way to discover any gaps in your planning. If you
discover that you aren't protected from data loss in any given scenario, it's an
opportunity to learn and fix this gap without risking real data loss. Sounds
like a win-win, doesn't it?