As an IT support specialist working closely with users in your organization, the
topic of users backups is sure to come up. We've already covered backing up
mission critical operational data, but what about the spreadsheets and PDX and
Karlie's laptop. She's going to want to make sure that she doesn't lose those if
her laptop gets stolen. While it's important to have a backup solution for
infrastructure and critical systems, you also to think about your users and
their valuable files. Ensuring reliable backups for client devices is a bit more
challenging than infrastructure devices. There likely to be lots of more client
devices to backup compared to infrastructure ones. Plus there are laptops,
phones and tablets that won't be in the office all the time. One solution to
user backups is to use a cloud service designed for syncing and backing up files
across platforms and devices. Some examples of these are things like Dropbox,
Apple iCloud and Google Drive, which are simple and straightforward to use.
There's no complicated scheduling or configuration compared to infrastructure
backups. They make it easy for users to configure what files or folders they
want to have backed up and then ensure the files are synchronized with what's
stored in the cloud. As an IT support specialist, this is especially relevant.
When users accidentally spill a cup of coffee on their laptop, they're going to
come to you hoping their precious family photos can be saved. Getting users set
up within easy to use and effective backup system for their files is great way
to avoid this situation.