Making mistakes is part of being human. We all make them from time to time, and
hopefully each mistake is a learning opportunity. We look at what happened and
try to understand why it did to avoid it in the future. Think of a toddler
learning the stove is hot. They touch it once and it burns them. They quickly
learn that touching the stove hurts, so they stop doing it. It's important that
we're able to learn from our mistakes or else we'd constantly be burning
ourselves. That's the purpose of a post-mortem report. We create a post-mortem
after an incident, an outage, or some event when something goes wrong, or at the
end of a project to analyze how it went. This report documents, in detail, what
exactly happened leading up to, during, and after the event or project. It tries
to highlight things that went well and things that didn't. The purpose of a
post-mortem is to learn something from an event or project, not to punish anyone
or highlight mistakes. Sure, they'll likely be some mistakes that'll be address
but, the intention isn't to punish or shame, it's meant to understand the root
cause of why the mistakes happen and how to prevent them from happening again.
The post-mortem process isn't quite over yet, once the report is written up it
needs to be communicated. These types of reports have value beyond the immediate
people involved in the incident, investigation and writing of the report.
Sharing post-mortems with other teams at an organization helps encourage a
culture of learning from mistakes, it shows that your team is willing to
acknowledge when you mess up. But you don't let mistakes hold you back, it sets
a good example for others to follow and the content in the report might trigger
the thought that some other team and make them realize they have a similar
problem in their infrastructure. You may also identify areas that could be
improved that are the responsibility of teams that weren't involved in the
incident. When it comes to post-mortems, sharing is caring. If you embrace
post-mortems, they tend to foster a culture where it's okay to make mistakes.
This is a healthy attitude to have in any organization. If people are afraid to
make mistakes, then decision making will be very conservative. It's hard to push
the boundaries and try new things if everyone is afraid of screwing up. But if
the prevailing culture says that mistakes are okay as long as we can learn from
them, then you'll have an organization that's willing to take risks, and try out
new and exciting ideas.