What exactly is data recovery? If you've ever broken a cell phone, you probably
lost some good pictures along with the phone itself. Data recovery is a process
of attempting to recover the data that's lost from the broken phone. But this is
just one example of attempting to recover from unexpected data loss. Data
recovery, in general terms, is the process of trying to restore data after an
unexpected event that results in data loss or corruption. Maybe a device that
contains data was physically damaged, or an attacker performed malicious
actions, or malware deleted critical data. Whatever the cause, the effect is the
same. You suddenly lost some really important data and you need to figure how to
get it back. How you go about trying to restore this lost data depends on a few
factors. One, is the nature of the data lost. If a device has been damaged, you
might be able to recover data from the damaged hardware. This could involve
using data recovery software, which can analyze failed hard disks or flash
drives and try to locate and extract data files. Another factor that would
effect your data recovery is the presence of backups. If you're lucky, or you
had the foresight to plan for the unexpected, you have data backed up. And you
can restore the data that was lost. Data recovery is an important part of an IT
system or organisation. Since data is critical component of any business
operations, as an IT support specialist ,part of your role is to ensure that
this data is available and protected from corruption or loss. So if something
goes wrong, the organization can continue with their business operations with
minimal disruptions. That's why it's critical to be able to recover from
unexpected events that could impact your business data. When an unexpected event
occurs, your main objective is to resume normal operations as soon as possible,
while minimizing the disruption to your business functions. By the end of this
module, you'll have practical tools and methods that you can use to protect your
data. One of the most important techniques you'll learn is how to effectively
backup your data. The best way to be prepared for a data-loss event is to have a
well-thought out disaster plan and procedure in place. Disaster plans should
involve making regular backups of any and all critical data that's necessary for
your ongoing business processes. This includes things like customer data, system
databases, system configs and financial data. You'll learn more about how to
design and implement a data disaster plan throughout this module. And lastly,
you'll learn more about what IT folks call a post-mortem. Imagine that something
did go wrong with your systems and you had to use a disaster plan. You might
have discovered issues when recovering your data, that wasn't covered in the
disaster plan. A post-mortem is a way for you to document any problems you
discovered along the way, and most importantly, the ways you fixed them so you
can make sure they don't happen again. Being unprepared for a major data loss
event can and has severely impacted businesses. In the upcoming lessons, you'll
learn how to prepare for data loss, which is a key part of any IT role. If
you're interested in hearing more about how real companies have been impacted by
unexpected data loss, check out the supplementary reading. Otherwise, we're
going to kick start our journey of data recovery with learning how to backup
data, ready? Let's get started.