As an IT support specialist, you might have to decide when a cloud service is a
better choice than using your own physical hardware. We've touched on this
already, but let's dive deeper into what to consider when you're making this
decision. Using cloud infrastructure doesn't require a large upfront investment.
So, it's a good choice if you aren't sure how long you need it. If you're
setting up temporary infrastructure, or trying something that might not last, a
cloud service may be your best option. Choosing to use cloud infrastructure also
makes sense when you have demand that varies greatly throughout the year. If you
operate a website that gets a lot of traffic during one season, but much less
for the remainder of the year, you wouldn't want to invest a lot of
infrastructure just to have it sit idle most of the time. Another reason to
choose the cloud is geographical location. If your users, employees of your
company, or external users of your services are distributed around the world,
having all of your service on-site won't satisfy their needs. You want to use a
provider that has datacenters in or close to the location that you want to
serve. Let's say you decided that your use case with the cloud model, how do you
decide which of the many cloud providers to use? Take a look at your specific
needs, and compare the services offered by the various providers, and then
figure out which one best serves your needs. Most cloud providers offer free
trials, so it's a good idea to test them out to see if they meet your needs, to
check how well your company's infrastructure integrates with the cloud
providers. Finally, the technology in this space is evolving quickly, there are
more services and solutions offered by cloud providers every year, so make sure
you're up to date about the latest changes in the field before making a
decision. That's it. Now you've got a better idea of what to think about when
you want to move your services to the cloud. To help you practice these
concepts, you'll be the one setting up the instances and the associated resource
in the next quick lab exercises, instead of connecting to an already existing
VM. Exciting, right? Well, you've done it again. You've covered a lot of
information in this module about software and platform services. You've learnt
about IT infrastructure services that help a business stay productive, like
communication services. You learned about security services that keep
information secure between web-browsers and servers. You also learned about
platform services that are used to deliver application to users. In the next
module, we'll talk about managing users, computers, and policies using directory
services. You're doing an awesome job, I know we're covering a lot, but stick
with it. You got this.