Now that we know the benefits of a postmortem, let's take a closer look at what
goes into one. A typical postmortem for an incident begins with a brief summary,
just a short paragraph, that summarizes the incident. It should include: what
the incident was? How long it lasted? And what the impact was? And how it was
fixed? Be mindful of time zone when listing times and dates in the postmortem.
Always clearly state the time zone to be absolutely clear. Next, you need a
detailed timeline of key events. This should include everything that happened
throughout the event like when it started, and when people involved were
notified or realized what was going on. Every action taken in an attempt to
resolve this situation should also be identified. These could contain times and
dates along with time zones, and who did what. The timeline should wrap up with
the actions taken that resolved the outage and restored services, signaling the
end of the event. Next, a very detailed and honest account of the root causes
covered. This should go into detail explaining what led to the issue. It could
be something like a configuration change that was pushed live without proper
testing, or a command that was typoed. Remember that the intent isn't to blame
or shame, is to be honest with what went wrong so that a lesson can be learned
from it. If the cause stemmed from a lack of testing, this might indicate areas
for improvement in test verification. If it was from a typoed command, this may
reveal the need to automate a manual process. A more detailed explanation of the
resolution and recovery efforts should be documented next. This is similar to
the timeline covered earlier and should include the dates, times, and time
zones. But it should go into more detail about what steps were taken to recover,
the rationale and the reasoning behind those actions, and what the outcome of
each that was including the rationale gives those reading the report more
context on how the event played out. Lastly, close out the report with a list of
specific actions that should be taken to avoid the same scenario from happening
again. This should include any actions or efforts aimed at improving the
response handling too. Steps to reduce response time when monitoring would help.
When you spin up a list of things to improve, look out for things like
improvements to monitoring systems. Maybe the incident investigation revealed a
gap in visibility into critical systems, or the cause investigating turns out
that automation system isn't functioning as intended. While it's outside the
scope of a postmortem report to come up with solutions to these gaps, they
should be listed in areas for improvement. Based on these discoveries, new
parties can start to address the deficiencies found. One thing that often gets
overlooked in postmortem is what went well. But this is just as important as
analyzing what went wrong. During the post-incident analysis, it's also good to
highlight things that went well. These include: fail safe or fail of a system
that worked as designed, and prevented a large outage, or minimized the severity
of the outage. This helps to demonstrate the effectiveness of our systems in
place. For some folks, like those in finance, this is good news. It justifies
any cost associated with these systems by clearly demonstrating a tangible
benefit. This is important for any preventative system since they are frequently
viewed as unnecessary costs by those that may not fully understand their
benefit. These examples of systems working to prevent or reduce the impact of
outages make that benefit very clear. Hopefully, you're better prepared now to
learn from any mistakes you might make in your career. And mistakes will be made
because you are human after all. Own them, learn from them, and do better next
time. Such is true in IT, work, and in life. Well, that brings us to the close
of our sysadmin course. We hope you have a better understanding of the
responsibilities of a sysadmin, and how closely they relate to the work of an IT
support specialist. Feel free to review any sections that might have been a bit
heavy on the technical side. First up, we've brought a quiz for you that would
touch on everything we've learned in this module. Then, when you're ready, you
can jump into the course project to put your new knowledge to work. We have some
fictional companies that you are going to play system administrator for. You
need to take a look at their current infrastructure and make recommendations for
improvements. I wish you the best of luck.